# 3. Tuples
Created Saturday 17 October 2020

**Tuple** - An ordered set of objects.

1. Tuple is immutable - Items of tuples non-reassignable, albeit value of items can change.
2. Parenthesis are not necessary, it is there only for avoiding syntactic ambiguity(i.e x=1,2 is the same as x=(1,2s))
3. t = 'a', 'b', 'c' 3-ary tuple

print(t)
We need to make the things good.

4. We can access them like lists using []. But don't try to change em
5. A tuple can have different data type items.
6. Update tuples by just reassigning them to the tuple with data changed
7. We have equality associativity from Right to Left
8. Tuples are immutable in order to avoid errors(be robust) - philosophy.
9. Tuples are useful for records, not for actively changing data.
10. We can extract values of the tuple(This is called tuple unpacking)
		1. a, b, c = tuple_name # Number of values SHOULD be the same as len(tuple)
		2. We can assign the same values to multiple things
		3. Don't use together on the same line

e.g a = b, c = 1, 3
a = (1, 3)
b = 1
c = 3
Not intuitive

11. Tuples can contain any object inside them , even other tuples etc.
12. It is useful to make a tuple so that relationships between variables is intuitive.
13. We can print any tuple, so they can be passed as it is to .format()


*****

**Number Systems**:
We can specify the number system and the decimal at last(but not together)

1. Use x for hex, o for oct and b for binary - small letters strictly
2. For representing in decimal 0b101001, 0xAF24, 0o137
3. For converting from decimal to other systems do int(str(hex(i))), or bin(i) or oct(i) - All are strings.
4. Scientific notation is allowed in Python - **7e-2**, **7E2** - all are valid


