# 1. Packing and unpacking
Created Thursday 14 January 2021

[Source](https://stackabuse.com/unpacking-in-python-beyond-parallel-assignment/#:~:text=Unpacking in Python refers to,the iterable unpacking operator%2C * .)
This works for all iterables, generator expressions, ranges etc.

#### Unpacking(iterable as RHS)
There are 2 kinds, which are very similar:

1. Out of place unpacking - used to assign values to variables in one-one fashion.

	a, b, c = 1, 2, 3 # same as (1, 2, 3) - a tuple
	a, b, c = [1, 2, 3]
	a, b, c = {1, 2, 3}
	a, b, c = {'p':1, 'q':2, 'r':3} # keys are assigned


2. In-place unpacking - used in merging iterables, in function calls.

	def f(a, b, c):
		print(a, b, c)
	
	k = [1, 2, 3]
	f(*k) # 1 2 3, for dicts prints keys
	# f(k) would be an error: a=k and but b, c will be remain unassigned


#### Packing(Collecting multiple values)
There are two cases here:

1. Single reciever - trailing comma is *required*.

	*b, = 1, 2, 3
	# b = [1, 2, 3] (list)


2. Multiple items in LHS - comma not required. Python automatically packs values, if left into the "*container"* object.

	a, *b = 1, 2, 3 # b == [2, 3] - Simple
	a, *b, c = 1, 2, 3, 4 # b is [2, 3] - spaced
	
	# b may be empty sometimes
	a, *b, c = 1, 2 # b [] empty - no values left


#### Uses

1. Parallel assignment - assign multiple values at once.
2. Swapping values between variables - ``a, b = b, a``
3. Collecting mutiple values with *, for example ``a, *b, d = 1, 2, 3, 4 # b is [2,3]``
4. Dropping values with * - ``a, b, *c = input().split() # c is just a sink``
5. Merging iterables with * and ** - similar to JS ellipsis

	x = [1, 2]
	y = [3, 4, *x, 6] # [3, 4, 1, 2, 6]
	
	# for dicts, use **
	x = {'a': 1, 'b': 2}
	y = {'c': 3, 'd': 4}
	z = {**x, **y} # dicts merged


Note: 

* ** is only used for for merging dicts, and nowhere else.
* Beware of unpacking a ``set``, they don't have a specific order. Use it only if the order is really irrelevant.


