# 5. Import details
Created Tuesday 12 January 2021

#### Import manipulates the symbol tables

* Each module has its own **private symbol table**, which serves as the global symbol table for all objects defined in the module. So, when a module is imported, a separate namespace is created in the calling file, which can be accessed either by the ``import`` argument or the alias(if defined).
* In a selective import or asterisk, the imported object(s) are added to the global namespace of the caller script. This(appending) is the reason for collisions.


#### dir() function - returns key list of current namespace

* Without arguments, returns the list of objects in the local scope. 
* With an argument, returns a list of valid attributes for that object. Can be used for module objects too.
* This can be useful for identifying what exactly has been added to the namespace by an import statement.

	print(dir())
	from math import *
	print(dir())


* It is very helpful when learning about modules and packages.
* ``dir()`` does not list the names of built-in functions and variables. If you want a list of those, they are defined in the standard module ``builtins``.


#### Reloading a module

* For reasons of efficiency, a module is only loaded once per interpreter session, even if different kinds of ``import`` statements reference the same module again.

	# mod.py
	print('Hello')
	>>> import mod
	Hello
	>>> import mod # nothing happens
	>>> import mod as t
	>>> # still nothing
	>>> from mode import *
	>>> # still nothing


* This is okay in majority of cases because module has no active code(contains classes, functions, global variables), but sometimes we need a module to be active, say in server intializations. How do we do this? - **``importlib`` **to the rescue.

	import mod
	Hello # printed
	import importlib
	importlib.reload(mod)
	Hello # printed
`

