# 3. Scope
Created Wednesday 06 January 2021


* A scope is the portion of a program from where a namespace(i.e names) can be accessed directly without any prefix.


As scope is the nearest namespace, there are 4 kinds of scopes:

1. **Local(Innermost function) **- If you refer to x inside a function, then the interpreter first searches for it in the innermost scope that’s local to that function.
2. **Enclosing(parent function) **- If x isn’t in the local scope but appears in a function that resides inside another function, then the interpreter searches in the enclosing function’s scope.
3. **Global **- If neither of the above searches is fruitful, then the interpreter looks in the global scope next.
4. **Built-in **- If it can’t find x anywhere else, then the interpreter tries the built-in scope.



* The order of search means that we can override built-in variable/functions like print.


Note: Scoping is the same as C++, except:

1. Block scoping - Absent. Values declared in if, for, etc are available outside.
2. Outer scope write access - not allowed directly.


Why python did this? - Forces good coding practice.

#### No block scope in python - only difference from C++

* The minimum scope unit in python is a function
* All other names pollute the global namespace irreversibly.

Consider the following in C++
	int main(){
	    int i = 3;
	    for (int j = 0; j <= 3; ++j){
	        i += 1;
	    }
	    cout << "i = " << i << endl;
	    cout << "j = " << j << endl; //Error, j not in scope
	    return 0;
	}


In Python
	i = 3
	for j in range(1,4):
	    i += 1
	print j   # OK, Error in C++
	for i in range(5,7):
	    j += 1  # OK, error in C++

